When the switch closes (J2 pin 1 and 2), current is flowing through U4 and U5
PhotoMOSes until C2 is charged up. U4 will pull the gate of Q1 P-MOSFET low,
raising the IN+ pin of the 3.7 to 5 V DC converter. U5 is still conducting,
so C1 will be charged up. As long as it is charged, Q3 N-MOSFET is conducting,
maintaining a low gate voltage on Q1 P-MOSFET.
Because the boost converter gets activated while C2 is being charged up,
it will reach a higher voltage than it would on the battery alone.
Depending on switch quality, it is recommended to choose a capacitance between
33 to 100 µF to ensure consistent current flow for the activation process.
The system remains active as long as the load draws enough current.
A Raspberry Pi with a 7 inch screen draws about 1.1 A, so 22 mV will be measured
on R1 constantan resistor, while R3 is at 9 mV. In this case, IN+ of U3 comparator
is lower than IN-, resulting in 0 V output.
When the switch opens, C2 will be discharged, flipping the signal low on the Pi's
pin 16. This will be detected by the python script running in the background, and
a software shutdown is initiated.
After shutdown, the voltage on the shunt drops to 2.2 mV. The comparator signal
changes to 5 V, enabling Q2 N-MOSFET with a little delay, thanks to C4 capacitor.
C1 is discharged through R5 resistor, and in about 24 seconds,
at 1.2 V gate, Q3 stops conducting, driving the gate of Q1 high,
which stops conducting too.
The circuit collapses, and all load is removed from the battery, apart from the
real-time clock.
After the initial pulse at startup, C1 gets partially discharged down to 2.63 V,
until the Pi draws full current consistently. R38 will take care of slowly
charging up the capacitor again.
The same shutdown sequence will occur when the Pi is shut down remotely.
The switch has to be turned off and on in order to restart the system.

In addition to power control, the board contains an USB socket for a trigger switch
used by the oscilloscope program, a connector forwarding measurements to the AD7606
module, and one channel is permanently set to monitor the battery voltage.